this is what I think should happen the
rapist even somebody who raised a woman
in a fur coat if that ever happens I
think that his penis and his ball should
be seared off with a cuticle remover
slowly then I think two skewers should
be shoved into their eye sockets
yo what up hopefully this video isn't
too lightweight for you guys I've made a
lot of really heavy content on YouTube
lately and some people love it some
people hate it what can I tell you this
video is really responding to two
different strands of thought on the one
hand a recurring theme especially in the
conversations I have with other vegans
face-to-face is of offering a sort of
broad and general excuse that well
whatever problems may exist in vegan
political discourse the fundamental
value we can return to is that we need
diversity we need all kinds of different
people promoting all kinds of different
messages all roads lead to Rome and it's
all positive in as much as it promotes
the vegan message now all right really
honest in our heart of hearts is this
anything more than a way of ending an
awkward conversation on my channel I
have encouraged people to go to school
stay in school get an education lead a
meaningful life get a meaningful job etc
can you really say that this message is
equally as valid as other vegans
encouraging people to just drop out of
school immediately to just live on
permanent vacation to just promote a
career on YouTube to travel wander
around Thailand aimlessly etc now it's
no joke I've mentioned specific examples
on my channel I have also received email
from people and I've seen a few a few
videos on YouTube but I've received
email from people I'm not going to name
obviously talking about their own
experience that they had a period of
their lives either in university or
while they were still in high school
when they were really seduced by this
when they really felt that they should
drop out of school or they actually did
drop out of school because of the
guidance being given to them by leaders
in the YouTube community now my advice
may not be great my advice
people apathy but it's not the same it's
not equivalent and if we're being honest
with ourselves we can't just say in an
offhand way well all roads lead to Rome
as long as people are promoting veganism
it doesn't matter whether their advices
to drop out of school and be a bum or
their advices to stay in school get an
education now as most you know watch my
channel among the most prominent people
who went back to school because of my
influence was this guy the vegan cheetah
so he's an ex-convict he's got a lot of
problems in his life he's been trying to
improve his life and turn it around
and he really thanked me profusely
indirectly some videos I made before I'd
ever talked to him some videos I made
really directly inspired him to turn his
life around and go back to college and
he's getting some kind of college degree
related to journalism and digital media
now and he's taken on a whole different
view of his future and his career and
before that he was directly under the
influence of people like durianrider and
freely in imagining himself being a
rebel being anti-establishment and in
just pursuing a life as a social media
personality now I can't claim up solve
any of the eye's problems
I can't even say my advice was that
great but my point is the notion of this
kind of equivalence falls apart I'm not
going to repeat here that the different
warnings I gave about bad nutritional
advice obviously we can't pretend that
all nutritional advice is equally valid
we can't pretend that all promises of
you know beauty and health promises that
you'll cure incurable diseases are not
equivalent to real science-based medical
approaches to veganism
that's another asymmetry but first and
foremost from my perspective when you
have a situation like Gary Yourofsky
sitting down and freaking out on camera
sitting down and incoherently saying
that people should be stabbed murdered
raped you know these kind of violent
Indian breakdowns from gary russkiy who
is not a teenager who is a grown man I
don't see how anyone can look at that
and honestly say well all roads lead to
Rome well as long as it's promoting the
it's okay and it's all equally valid
revolutionaries throughout history we're
all crazy crazy enough to fight the
system to stand up in a court of law and
not apologize for breaking the law to go
up against cops judges politicians
society in general and if you want to
say that well you still support violence
I've never denied that I support
violence it's going to be in the very
near future that somebody bust into a
slaughterhouse or a vivisection lab with
guns and they tell the slaughterhouse
workers you take those knives off those
pigs throats right now I'm gonna shoot
you there's no way that a pro violence
message can really be equal to an anti
violence message there's no way that a
democratic participatory approach to
veganism can be equivalent to a violent
and fascistic approach to veganism and I
don't use the word fascist lightly some
of you already know this about me I'm
one of the only vegan channels to
directly address the problem of
neo-nazis within veganism nobody else
wanted to do it now some of my critics
who kind of fault me for very minor
things who people who have their own
YouTube channels one of things I can say
back with them is yeah look I may be a
terrible human being
but at least I was bold enough to really
take on and address the problem of
neo-nazis and since I made that video I
know of at least two more or channels
people who were vegan who became either
neo-nazis or crypto Nazis you know you
know not quite as clearly committed to
like Adolf Hitler but still way out on
that end of the political spectrum and
involved in anti-semitism and racism and
what-have-you
so that's going on there is no way we
could say oh well you know all roads
lead to Rome as long as they're
promoting veganism it's all equally
valid no obviously there are hard limits
obviously we have a real problem that I
feel a guy like Gary Yourofsky brings
into sharp focus
with you know the lunatic fringe of
veganism being the most visible aspect
of veganism being in some ways the most
influential aspect of veganism and we're
in danger of that being the definitive
image of veganism is certainly in Israel
a Gary Yourofsky being the guy who got
on television his particular form of
insanity probably has defined how
millions of people think about veganism
for better and for worse and you know of
course you can point to some elements of
his influence that are positive but yes
I am really sincerely concerned about
the negative aspects and I'm even more
concerned about it because just like
with the the issue of the actual Nazis
within veganism nobody's talking about
it then people are making these excuses
and carrying on now so I said way back
at the beginning of what five minutes
ago there's sort of two questions I want
to roll into one video here the other is
something that came up very briefly in
my my conversation with Zarya you may
have noticed that conversations Aria I
paused and reflected I said look you
know I can remember the first vegans I
saw on YouTube and that did in some
sense shape what I saw as normal or as
positive or beneficial discourse in this
game we play backtrack slightly here
look why do I mention this now why do I
include it with this question of look
all all roads lead to Rome as opposed to
being really honest and reflecting on
the hard limits to what is and isn't
positive or acceptable within veganism
as a social movement to some extent
whenever you're criticizing something
else as unacceptable or abnormal you
have some implicit notion of what
normalcy is and you know I'm not such a
snob I do think and I've said this in
recent videos I said this in
conversation of the vegan cheetah you
know I do think there's a role for just
vacation videos I do think there's a
role for weight loss and lifestyle and
the stuff unfortunately currently it's
suffocating the life out of veganism
there are problems I've discussed in the
length this channel I don't need to
repeat them but I think there's a role
for
and silliness and for all kinds of
diversity within what vegans have on
YouTube
however as have already been saying
there are hard limits
there is nothing comedic about gary
yourofsky's sitting down on a mainstream
news channel and ranting about killing
people and stabbing them in the eyes and
these you know dark violent fantasies he
has this is not comedy it's not satire
it's not a positive part of veganism and
there has been a code of silence I think
the vast majority of you guys who are
watching this you who have your own
YouTube channels now you you ask
yourself you look in the mirror why you
never addressed it I think it's because
in the one hand people felt a debt of
gratitude towards Gary Yourofsky that
they felt they could not criticize him
because of the positive contributions
made and on the other hand people are
just in the reckless pursuit of fame and
they would much rather try to to you
know
attach themselves to gary yourofsky's
star to try to ride his wave of
popularity to try to make money
basically or raise their own profile
rather than really being honest or
rather than really dealing with the
negative implications this has okay so
in this context you know for me it's
worth reflecting on what I think is
normal given you know even in that
discussion with Zarya we were talking
about
I don't really regard the beauty
centered form of veganism as normal now
on the one hand that reflects my own
experiences back around the year 2000 s
that's now 16 years ago when veganism
just was not about diet and weight loss
beauty and sorry people didn't even say
vegan back then people said vegetarian
and animal rights or you know animal
rights and ecology you know different
terms use the word vegan was not that
popular yet and I think I think most of
people weren't one either but they were
somewhere on the on the vegetarian
spectrum and say back then I refused to
buy leather back then and so on I mean
it's just that just a different
different era and I've already made
videos talking about that but look I
said to Zarya the first youtubers I saw
they were not
presenting themselves as objects to
seduce you they weren't they weren't the
beauty was just not the focus of the
message it wasn't important and you know
of course beauties in the eye of the
beholder and so on but one of the people
who shaped my expectation the very first
person I saw talking with Venus on
YouTube was Shelley one two three I will
put a link below I think she's been
forgotten now it's more than five years
ago and I'm not saying her videos are
brilliant I'm not saying they influenced
me they didn't that they had no real
impact on me but that was the first time
when I sort of had I saw the reality of
veganism being you know packaged and
presented and argued on behalf of on
YouTube where YouTube was the public
forum for the presentation these ideas
let us say that that gave me a sense of
normalcy compared to which people liked
freely never were normal you know so for
me that's worth reflecting on and the
other channel I want to I want to link
to here is a young woman named Claire
they do feel pain they are sentient so
we can make such a big difference with
our choices the choices that we make
every day we can help to make this world
more nonviolent more loving we can help
to erase discrimination and exploitation
so you can do that why don't you want to
why don't you want to make the world a
better place
so she's now 20 years old but she's been
on YouTube for several years and I
remember seeing her videos several years
ago when she was probably 17 so at age
17 she was putting up rational
rigorously argued statements on behalf
of veganism and she was uploading them
both in English and in Chinese now if
you're really honest with yourself if
you take the time to click through the
link and take a look at Claire's videos
I'm not saying they're all genius I'm
not saying they're all brilliant
but honestly this woman at 17 was a
better advocate for veganism than Gary
Yourofsky ever has be so the point is if
we can't be perfect vegans if we can't
be perfectly nonviolent all the time we
can still get really close we can still
be 95% nonviolent or 99% online why are
you going to say that we can't be a
hundred percent so I'm just going to be
therapist it it doesn't make sense and
trying to be nonviolent really try
really going big and really trying to do
the best you can make such a big
difference nature is violet short but is
that a good thing do you want to say
nature is violent and just live
violently everywhere no that's not but
we have a choice to live non-violently
and we should make that choice we should
try and live as non-violently as
possible but if you have in your mind an
excuse for Gary Yourofsky that
oh he's a young guy you know he just he
has mood swings you know we should just
overlook this or forgive this no gary
yourofsky's conduct in having these
kinds of hysterical violent breakdowns
in news interviews and just on his own
youtube channel where he can edit it you
know he doesn't even have to release it
nobody's forcing him and in the
interviews he's given to bite size vegan
that type of behavior it compares badly
to any mainstream politician whether
it's a local mayor or someone like Jeb
Bush we all think Jeb Bush is an idiot
well if Jeb Bush is an idiot compared
Gary Yourofsky do how much stupider how
much less disciplined is Gary Yourofsky
because uh it's very difficult to think
of a mainstream politician you know
these breakdowns but really sincerely
this young woman Claire to take a look
at her content she was doing better at
age 17 then Gary Yourofsky was as a
grown man so again for me there are
lessons there about what's normal not
what's optimal not what's excellence but
just you know it is possible for people
to address these issues engage with them
in a sincere meaningful way
without resorting to you know making a
product out of their own sexuality and
without resorting to these kind of
extreme violent tactics or what-have-you
there's just nothing inevitable about
that but the last thing I got to say
here is the same as the first thing to
make progress even just as isolated
individuals you know forget the movement
to make progress just as a bunch of
people who are sitting alone in front of
the internet with a camera with a blog
with whatever you've got making any
progress on this issue actually does
start with admitting to ourselves no
it's not okay it's not the case that all
roads lead to Rome it's not the case
that all messages in support of veganism
are equally valid and should be equally
embraced just because this for veganism
the same way that we need to have a
refined critical awareness that we apply
to health information scientific claims
etc we need to apply to political claims
and yeah it reflects very badly on
veganism the paucity I have any kind of
sincere critique in response to the
neo-nazis in response to Gary Yourofsky
in response to any of the other
outlandish examples that really matter
that reflects very badly on the state of
veganism today when you look at the
incredibly cadi shrewish
counterproductive self-hating infighting
that goes on over matters that are
completely trivial